<span class="s1">A Predictive Analysis of Breast Cancer Risk
Factors</span>

<span class="s1">David A. Rynties</span>

<span class="s1">Lucas K. Ausbury</span>

<span class="s1">Using a risk model dataset of 280,000+ records taken
with permission from the Breast Cancer Surveillance Consortium (BCSC),
we plan on creating a predictive algorithm which calculates the risk
factor of breast cancer development based on variables such as: age,
breast density, race, BMI, diagnosed first degree relatives, and many
others. For this project, we hope to develop a system which when user
data is provided, the application will analyze the data and output the
approximate percentage of breast cancer development. If a user finds
that they have a high probability of development, they can use that
information to take preventative measures / learn what to look for to
catch the tumor early. If caught early, the chances of death are quite
small in comparison to catching it late. Much more manageable.<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></span>

<span class="s1">Firstly, we intend to calculate which variables provide
the most significant information towards risk. This will be done with
each individual variable. Those of which show the least significant may
be excluded. Once the most significant variables have been calculated,
going from most to least, wed like to understand the increase in
predictability accuracy based on each additional variable. Obviously age
will be a big factor so this may have to be done for each different age
group. Maybe we can show the likelihood of developing breast cancer
through a graph with time on the x and risk probability on the y.</span>

<span class="s1">Deliverables will contain graphs and predictive models
based on variables found within this dataset.<span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></span>

<span class="s1">We also have a dataset of mammogram images taken from
the Mammographic Image Analysis Society. If we have time, we may attempt
to add an image processing component using a convoluted neural network
or something similar to analyze pixel density / color based on size,
position, and composition.</span>

<span class="s1">Once completed, it would be great if users could enter
their data, get a risk prediction of breast cancer, if that prediction
is above a certain percentage, get a mammogram, process that image, if
image contains high probability rate of malignancy, send to radiologist
for confirmation. If image analysis returns low probability, remove.
Must be very low to guarantee misdiagnosis. <span
class="Apple-converted-space"> </span></span>
